README.md, before:

# request-http-cache

[![Build Status](https://travis-ci.org/gitterHQ/request-http-cache.svg?branch=master)](https://travis-ci.org/gitterHQ/request-http-cache) [![Coverage Status](https://coveralls.io/repos/gitterHQ/request-http-cache/badge.svg)](https://coveralls.io/r/gitterHQ/request-http-cache)

A [request](https://github.com/request/request) "middleware" for caching HTTP responses in-memory or in Redis. Built for
Gitter's communications with GitHub as part of [Tentacles](https://github.com/gitterHQ/tentacles),
although it's intended as a general purpose HTTP caching module that should work
with any request HTTP client.

```
npm install request-http-cache
```

## About

This module is intended for use with [request-extensible](https://github.com/suprememoocow/request-extensible).

It is designed to honor the HTTP caching semantics used by the GitHub API and use
Conditional Requests, using ETags, for stale responses while correctly handling Vary headers.

## Using

### Using with an in-memory Backend

```javascript
var requestExt = require('request-extensible');
var RequestHttpCache = require('request-http-cache');

var httpRequestCache = new RequestHttpCache({
  max: 1024*1024 // Maximum cache size (1mb) defaults to 512Kb
});

var request = requestExt({
  extensions: [
    httpRequestCache.extension
  ]
});

// Now use request as you would request/request
request({ url: 'https://api.github.com/users/suprememoocow' }, function(err, response, body) {

});
```

### Using with a Redis Backend

When using with a Redis backend, it's highly recommended to use `maxmemory` and
`maxmemory-policy` configurations to ensure that the Redis memory usage doesn't
grow out of control.

```javascript
var requestExt = require('request-extensible');
var RequestHttpCache = require('request-http-cache');

var httpRequestCache = new RequestHttpCache({
  backend: 'redis',
  redis: {
    host: "localhost",
    port: 6379
  },
  redisClient: redisClient, // Or you can pass in your Redis client
  ttl: 86400                // Maximum cached response time
});

var request = requestExt({
  extensions: [
    httpRequestCache.extension
  ]
});

// Now use request as you would request/request
request({ url: 'https://api.github.com/users/suprememoocow' }, function(err, response, body) {

});
```

# Under the Hood

When a new outgoing request is made, the Vary headers for the URL endpoint are
looked up in the cache.

### Outgoing

 * If the Vary headers for the endpoint are not known (ie, the URL has not been cached),
   the request proceeds as normal.
 * If the Vary headers are available, a SHA1 hash of the URL plus the requested headers
   specified by the Vary is generated. Although the chance of a hash entry collision is rare,
   the library does deal with this situation and treats it as a cache miss.
 * The Etag and Expiry headers for the previous cached response are looked up using the
   hash.
 * If the response has not yet expired, it is returned immediately.
 * If the response has expired, the request is issued with a `If-None-Match` header

### Incoming
 * If the response is in error or a 500 status code, the cached response is used.
 * If the response is a 304, indicating that the data is still fresh, the cached response is used
 * Otherwise the response is cached and the Vary headers for the URL endpoint are stored
   the response is returned to the caller.  

# TODO

 * Support for `If-Modified-Since` conditional responses (currently only uses ETags)
 * Better handling of `Cache-Control` headers
 * Better handling of `Expires` headers (currently only uses `Cache-Control`'s `max-age`)

Pull requests welcome.

# Authors

Built by [@suprememoocow](https://twitter.com/suprememoocow) and the team at [Gitter](https://gitter.im).

# Licence

```
License
The MIT License (MIT)

Copyright (c) 2015, Troupe Technology Limited

Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining a copy
of this software and associated documentation files (the "Software"), to deal
in the Software without restriction, including without limitation the rights
to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute, sublicense, and/or sell
copies of the Software, and to permit persons to whom the Software is
furnished to do so, subject to the following conditions:

The above copyright notice and this permission notice shall be included in all
copies or substantial portions of the Software.

THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR
IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY,
FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE
AUTHORS OR COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER
LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING FROM,
OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER DEALINGS IN THE
SOFTWARE.
```

Commit message:

Removed snappy and protobuf from the main library and moved them into independent modules.

README.md, after:

# request-http-cache

[![Build Status](https://travis-ci.org/gitterHQ/request-http-cache.svg?branch=master)](https://travis-ci.org/gitterHQ/request-http-cache) [![Coverage Status](https://coveralls.io/repos/gitterHQ/request-http-cache/badge.svg)](https://coveralls.io/r/gitterHQ/request-http-cache)

A [request](https://github.com/request/request) "middleware" for caching HTTP responses in-memory or in Redis. Built for
Gitter's communications with GitHub as part of [Tentacles](https://github.com/gitterHQ/tentacles),
although it's intended as a general purpose HTTP caching module that should work
with any request HTTP client.

```
npm install request-http-cache
```

## About

This module is intended for use with [request-extensible](https://github.com/suprememoocow/request-extensible).

It is designed to honor the HTTP caching semantics used by the GitHub API and use
Conditional Requests, using ETags, for stale responses while correctly handling Vary headers.

## Using

### Using with an in-memory Backend

```javascript
var requestExt = require('request-extensible');
var RequestHttpCache = require('request-http-cache');

var httpRequestCache = new RequestHttpCache({
  max: 1024*1024 // Maximum cache size (1mb) defaults to 512Kb
});

var request = requestExt({
  extensions: [
    httpRequestCache.extension
  ]
});

// Now use request as you would request/request
request({ url: 'https://api.github.com/users/suprememoocow' }, function(err, response, body) {

});
```

### Using with a Redis Backend

When using with a Redis backend, it's highly recommended to use `maxmemory` and
`maxmemory-policy` configurations to ensure that the Redis memory usage doesn't
grow out of control.

```javascript
var requestExt = require('request-extensible');
var RequestHttpCache = require('request-http-cache');

var httpRequestCache = new RequestHttpCache({
  backend: 'redis',
  redis: {
    host: "localhost",
    port: 6379
  },
  redisClient: redisClient, // Or you can pass in your Redis client
  ttl: 86400                // Maximum cached response time
});

var request = requestExt({
  extensions: [
    httpRequestCache.extension
  ]
});

// Now use request as you would request/request
request({ url: 'https://api.github.com/users/suprememoocow' }, function(err, response, body) {

});
```

# Under the Hood

When a new outgoing request is made, the Vary headers for the URL endpoint are
looked up in the cache.

### Outgoing

 * If the Vary headers for the endpoint are not known (ie, the URL has not been cached),
   the request proceeds as normal.
 * If the Vary headers are available, a SHA1 hash of the URL plus the requested headers
   specified by the Vary is generated. Although the chance of a hash entry collision is rare,
   the library does deal with this situation and treats it as a cache miss.
 * The Etag and Expiry headers for the previous cached response are looked up using the
   hash.
 * If the response has not yet expired, it is returned immediately.
 * If the response has expired, the request is issued with a `If-None-Match` header

### Incoming
 * If the response is in error or a 500 status code, the cached response is used.
 * If the response is a 304, indicating that the data is still fresh, the cached response is used
 * Otherwise the response is cached and the Vary headers for the URL endpoint are stored
   the response is returned to the caller.  

# Support for snappy compression and/or protobuf serialization

Snappy compression and protobuf serialization of cached data is supported. However
in tests, it is generally slower than JSON and no compression, so it's disabled
by default.

To enable it, use one of both of the `serializer` and/or `compressor` options:
```js
var httpRequestCache = new RequestHttpCache({
  backend: 'redis',
  serializer: require('request-http-cache-protobuf-serializer'),
  compressor: require('request-http-cache-snappy-compressor')
});
```

You will need to require the respective modules as these are no longer shipped
with `request-http-cache`.

# TODO

 * Support for `If-Modified-Since` conditional responses (currently only uses ETags)
 * Better handling of `Cache-Control` headers
 * Better handling of `Expires` headers (currently only uses `Cache-Control`'s `max-age`)

Pull requests welcome.

# Authors

Built by [@suprememoocow](https://twitter.com/suprememoocow) and the team at [Gitter](https://gitter.im).

# Licence

```
License
The MIT License (MIT)

Copyright (c) 2015, Troupe Technology Limited

Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining a copy
of this software and associated documentation files (the "Software"), to deal
in the Software without restriction, including without limitation the rights
to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute, sublicense, and/or sell
copies of the Software, and to permit persons to whom the Software is
furnished to do so, subject to the following conditions:

The above copyright notice and this permission notice shall be included in all
copies or substantial portions of the Software.

THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR
IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY,
FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE
AUTHORS OR COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER
LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING FROM,
OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER DEALINGS IN THE
SOFTWARE.
```
